Welcome to this video angular A-6 was released.
And the most important information right at the start angular six doesn't reduce breaking changes are
X-Trace six which is a core dependency of aler six deaths though.
But it's really easy to fix and we'll have a look at how it works and how it can be fixed.
In this video all check out the article you find below to video.
And with that let's get started and let's see what's new in angular six.
So let's start with the breaking change that is introduced by Tingler 6.
It uses are ex-chief Yes whereas six now are SJS is that library that is used for observables and cubes
or will operators angular use a standard library a lot behind the scenes.
And you typically also use it in angular applications.
For example when you're working with the angular to the client then you probably also use some are x
chess operators like map.
Now with our Yes we're in 6 the internal package structure of our exchange was changed to ensure that
future bundles are smaller and that import statements are easier and therefore you have to adjust your
import statements.
That is one thing that changed.
And the way you use the operators all the changed.
However there is a package which you can install to still have your old code work with the new are x
chairs.
Werman So to get that backward compatibility and that package is called Our X chess dash combat now.
Let's have a look at how we actually use that package and how we can also update our code without using
that package for that.
I prepared a simple demo project which you find below this video and in this project it's important
that I update it to Anglo-Irish in six release candidate here for this video.
But everything I show here will to work for the final Englis six where isn't important.
I also use our access question 6 here and that is the debt Rake's your code.
If I run Engy serve and if you check out my app component you can see that this actually is code that
used to work in the past.
I'm sending HTP request with dangler actually declined and I'm using some observable operators.
I got all my imports up here.
So if I execute this code with angular 6N are extra six it fails you see that we get an error that we
can find a module or X as compact observable.
Now the interesting thing is that it's already referring to it as Onyx as compact package here.
Now it's doing that because our X test six automatically has is backward compatibility built in.
We just need to install that package to unlock it.
So you'll simply run NPM install dash dash save our access dash compact.
By the way if you want to learn all about it is our access six update and the changes it brings.
I traded a separate video about that definitely all.
Check this out.
And just as with this video the artics chats with you all comes with an article where I walk you through
all the steps in a written form.
But back to this project with our exercice compact installed.
You can rerun Angie's birth and now it should actually serve your application and work just fine with
the code the same code that worked in the past.
Well you might actually get an error regarding throw which is not supported but it should recompile
and work.
If you try again Nells you wouldn't load this application.
It actually wouldn't work because we get an error regarding the alert service which I don't provide
but the error regarding our exchange is gone.
If we ignore that Frot error which again you may ignore and will all fix it in a second.
So it is generally how you can make your r x chess related code work again with the help of our X..
Yes compact so code did worked with angler Phife and our X chaffs 5 will then work again.
But you of course all probably want to upgrade without using that package forever though it doesn't
add much to your bundle size.
So using it is actually not a big deal.
If you want to update without using that package we first of all should uninstall it.
So let's run NPM uninstall to ASH safe Arctic's Yes compact to make sure it's really gone and thereafter
Let's see how we have to adjust our app component code to work again with it installed.
We have to adjust some imports observable and anything else that was imported from our exchange as something
like subscription or subject is now imported from just our exchange.
So observable from our exchanges.
Now all these operators and sends on are all imported differently.
This was the import unlocking everything we can get rid of it.
We can also get rid of the rest of the other operators.
I'll leave these two imports for now.
So operators are imported also with the From statement and it's from artics.
Yes operators and from there use simply import your operators as functions.
So in our code here we need map and we'll all need catch.
Now catch was also renamed because since we import the functions like this they would clash with research
names and Javascript and catch is a reserved name so they had to rename it.
Catch now is catch error in that video where I talk exclusively about the Chaiya 6 update anti-particle
that is connected to that video.
I do actually list all changes all name changes we got.
So here we get this updated employed 40 operators now for these observable creation methods.
We all need a difference in TX.
We now import Ds from our exchange.
So we import off from there and we import fro from there.
But this would all be a reserved word so it's fro error.
And with that we can get rid of the bottom two imports here too.
With all these updates the question of course is how do we need to change our code down there where
we're using these operators.
Well instead of changing them to our absorbable we now use a special new method provided by our next
chess which is called pipe.
Now pipe is a method which simply takes an infinite amount of arguments and each argument is an operator
you want to apply to your observable.
So you grab that map operator you grab that catch operator and add it as a second argument separate
the by a comma and it's of course catch error now.
And with that you're fine with that you now use piped to apply all these operators left to right and
now you got your code updated regarding you operators at least.
Now we got an issue regarding throw here.
We don't use observable row we just execute fro error.
So this function we're importing as a function.
And if we were using off we're not actually doing that here.
But if we were using that we would also execute this as a function.
So off like this.
So this is how you work with observables now changed imports changed way of using operators.
But this actually is already old.
So if we now save that and we rerun ngi surf we again should get a successful compilation without the
arcs chest compact package because we are successfully using the latest version of our exchanges as
we adjusted all our imports and code and it did it compiled successfully.
Now that's not everything.
Angler's 6 brings is the only breaking change.
And as you see updating it is really easy.
And if you don't have the time to do that you can just use our exchange as compared to make your old
code work again instantly.
Now angler's 6 we also got deprecation and removals.
So first of all template is removed and this does not mean the template property of a component decorator.
It means that if in your component templates you were using the template HVM element.
It won't work anymore.
Instead you should now use N-G template.
Now chances are you are not using dead elements too often.
But for example you can use it in connection with NGF if you want to wrap some content with NGF template
is not going to render itself.
It only renders the wrapped content with the help of NGF as I just said.
So this is removed.
Use N.G. template instead.
If we're using the template tag.
And regarding D.H. to the client the old one is still fine to use.
It's still safe.
Nothing wrong with it but it's deprecated.
It actually already was with Angola 5.
Now you should slowly switch to the new age to be client which is exported from aler common to be in
my complete guide.
I have a whole section on this new client so you can learn how to use it there.
Again it's fine to use the old one but you should slowly switch to a new one because with angular 7
the old one will be removed too.
In the demo project I have prepared.
I am already using the new age to be client with the peak line class import from angular common.
But in my template I actually used the old template tags.
So here I simply add and template and it's working again now now as you can see I have kind of a constructed
case here because I'm using that syntax of NGF which you rarely see because you typically use it with
a start and not with the square brackets.
Well this is essentially what that star syntax will compile to or will be transformed to.
Does this how you can write all your NGF statements.
I of course only did it to show you that the template needs to be changed to N.G. template.
If you were using it.
So this is the second important thing you got to know deprecation and removals.
There also is one interesting change regarding services.
I got my alert service there and we saw earlier that we got an error because we we're not providing
it.
So the classic approach is to add it to the providers an array in the app module and then we ensured
that we got one in the same instance.
Office service class available everywhere in our app everywhere where we injected.
For this you of course also need to import Eilerts service.
Now if you do that you will see it that are apt now successfully LOTES and show alert does its job show
content also does its job.
By the way so this is now all working fine.
The interesting thing about angler's 6 is that we now get a different way of providing our service class
to the entire application instead of adding it to the provider's aere India module and importing it
there.
We can also use a different approach.
We can go to the alert service here and on top of our class we add at injectable.
Now if you're an advanced angler user you know that at uncheckable is actually only needed on a service
class if you plan on injecting something into debt service not if you plan to inject that service into
something else.
However injectable now takes an object where you can configure it and this object has provided in key
and you can set this to root.
This actually ensures that Engler will automatically provide this on the root level so it does the same
as if you added in the provider's array here.
But it obviously saves you some code so we can also use that new approach of providing our service and
with that if I go back our application still works as before but now we're providing it on a root level.
So the same class has the entire application in a different way.
With this new provided key in that object we passed to injectable which is attached to the service we
want to provide very useful to know.
So that's where we had some nice change as one breaking change which wasn't too hard to fix.
Angular elements is an addition shipping with angular 6.
That's pretty cool though.
Angular element's allows us to transform our angular components to native weap components weap components
are not connected to angular.
They use vanilla javascript and they essentially allow us to create our own custom h t m l elements.
Now theoretically we can use these elements in any web application we create.
Even if that is not using angler though for the time being with angular six angular elements actually
only allows us to create custom components which we can use inside of angular application the question
of course is why would we use that feature then.
We already got angular components that we can use in an angular application.
Why would we create elements h t m l elements that work there too.
The reason is dynamic content.
If you got some content management system from which you're fetching contemns you want to render.
Let's say you are fetching prepared aged him female code because you got some editors on your back and
who are writing.
H tim l code.
And you'll want to give these people the chance of actually using your angular components in the HTML
code.
They are preparing then typically this would not work.
If you're fetching HTML code that contains components selectors from your angular app and you're injecting
that into your template into your angular templates then angular will not compiled at incoming code
because first of all typically you compile ahead of time and even with just in time compilation which
happens in the browser.
The dangler app would be done compiling before you are dynamic content is loaded.
Even if you're not loading that asynchronously so dynamic content doesn't support angular components.
That is the old world at least now with angular elements.
You can take your angular component turn it into a native h tim l Elliman so to say and this element
can then be rendered.
Because it's a self bootstrapping enclosed component packed into a h l element which you can actually
load dynamically.
I created an entire video about angular elements and I strongly recommend checking that out because
it makes things much clearer.
In the end what we do in that video is we build this application which I can load in after a second
and loads.
This alert doesn't look too amazing but if we have a look at the code we actually see that we got to
alert the component which is responsible for the alert which also has a dynamic input to your.
And if you take a closer look in my app compute h HTML file.
I'm not using data selector.
Instead I have a div with inner h him L which is content and if we have a look at the app component
you'll see the content initially is null and then is set to in the end.
Just some H HTML code which could be coming from a server too.
Here I'm just faking it to be asynchronous with said time out.
But this could be something you fetch from an API.
Now the magic happens here.
We're creating a custom element from the angular component and we register it with our native dom so
custom elements define is not a singular feature.
It's a native javascript feature.
Now our browser essentially knows about that element and we can use it and therefore this code which
is loaded offer dangler application is compiled will still work.
So that's a pretty interesting technology.
We'll still see some advancements there for example that we can also use it outside of angular applications.
But playing around with it already is pretty cool.
And as I said check out that extra video I created.
Link of course can be found in the video description.
Now we're almost done with the new features introduced by angular six.
It does introduce a new renderer ivy.
Now what does this mean for you.
First of all this is in the end a renderer that has to target off drastically reducing your bundle sizes
so the sizes of the bundles you get when you build your angel or app a Hello World panel for example
should be down to free kilobytes and yet it's still in a very early phase though.
Therefore it's not the default and angler's six applications and it's very unstable.
It's not even feature complete.
So definitely don't use it.
Play around with it but don't try using it it's not done.
We'll probably only see it being used in production in angler's 7 or later.
So nice to know that this is coming.
Nice to keep track of status updates but don't use it in production.
There is a demo vailable in case you want to learn more about it and you can unlock it with a flag which
you set in the TS config.
If I go back to my application here we can set that flag in the TS conflict or chase and fall.
There we have to add a new element or a new note which is the angular compiler options.
Note and then you object which does Holts we set.
And Abel IAB too true.
Now if we do that we got Ivy turn on and enabled.
And if we then run ngi build broths to build our application and therefore we would use ivy.
We actually see that it fails.
Now just to prove that this is coming from ivy if I removed that setting from my teacher's conflict
and I rerun this Adeste complete successfully so does a something which doesn't even Well compile such
a simple app because it's not feature complete.
So it's not because Ivy is so bad it's just about feature complete.
You can check out the demo though linked to which can also be found that have a description of course.
This isn't too impressive but if you check out the get up page behind that demo which is maintained
or created by Rob or moldered does it's just really a page showing how it theoretically works not a
page where you should go and submit issues because something is not working.
It's just a demo.
If you go there check out the hello world component you see in the end and this is probably just because
it's an early phase.
We get some different imports we create a component as we know it but then we render it as render a
component approach.
We'll see how the final API looks like once it's done.
Again it's in beta.
It's early but this is coming and it's interesting to see that angler is working in a direction that
it will lead to much smaller bundles sizes because I guess we all can agree that Engler bundle sizes
historically have been a bit too big.
Now last but not least I also want to show you a new ACL I command which will be available in the future.
N-G update.
Now it doesn't work for me right now because I'm recording this ahead of time.
But Engy up they should simply update your angular application and its dependencies to the latest version.
So very convenient for switching versions and that's actually it.
So your updating strategy is that you want to handle these are actually has six changes either with
the Arctic TS compact package you install so that your old code works again or by updating your imports
and your operator.
Use etch to code where you use operators.
You want to replace template with Engy template in case you had such templates tacks in your component
templates you slowly want to start switching to the new age to be client and play around with angular
elements and in you you render feel free to track their status as their developments all of course all
try their best to keep you informed.
And with that I'd say it's not a bad update.
Doesn't break anything.
Offer some exciting new technologies which will be even more exciting in the future.
Yes and overall continues to improve.
Dangler framework.